Climate Scientist Wayne Adams: Severe weather is west of Antlers Oklahoma by about 40 miles. These storms have had a history of producing damage. Stay aleert for future warnings. Storms are moving into Haskell and Latimer counties in Oklahoma. Heavy rain lightning and gusty winds are possible...BULLETIN - EAS ACTIVATION REQUESTED
Tornado Warning
National Weather Service Tulsa OK
405 PM CDT Tue Apr 28 2026

The National Weather Service in Tulsa has issued a

* Tornado Warning for...
  Southwestern Pushmataha County in southeastern Oklahoma...
  Northwestern Choctaw County in southeastern Oklahoma...

* Until 430 PM CDT.

* At 405 PM CDT, a severe thunderstorm capable of producing a tornado
  was located near Lane, moving east at 40 mph.

  HAZARD...Tornado and ping pong ball size hail.

  SOURCE...Radar indicated rotation.

  IMPACT...Flying debris will be dangerous to those caught without 
           shelter. Mobile homes will be damaged or destroyed. 
           Damage to roofs, windows, and vehicles will occur.  Tree 
           damage is likely.

* Locations in or near the path include...
  Antlers...                        Soper...
  Kellond...                        Kent...
  Moyers...                         Darwin...

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

TAKE COVER NOW! Move to a basement or an interior room on the lowest
floor of a sturdy building. Avoid windows. If you are outdoors, in a
mobile home, or in a vehicle, move to the closest substantial shelter
and protect yourself from flying debris.
...BULLETIN - EAS ACTIVATION REQUESTED
Tornado Warning
National Weather Service Norman OK
337 PM CDT Tue Apr 28 2026

The National Weather Service in Norman has issued a

* Tornado Warning for...
  North central Bryan County in southeastern Oklahoma...
  Southwestern Atoka County in southeastern Oklahoma...

* Until 415 PM CDT.

* At 337 PM CDT, a severe thunderstorm capable of producing a tornado
  was located 5 miles east of Coleman, moving east at 30 mph.

  HAZARD...Tornado and golf ball size hail.

  SOURCE...Radar indicated rotation.

  IMPACT...Flying debris will be dangerous to those caught without 
           shelter. Mobile homes will be damaged or destroyed. 
           Damage to roofs, windows, and vehicles will occur.  Tree 
           damage is likely.

* Locations impacted include...
  Tushka, Caney, Lane, Boggy Depot Park, and Bentley.

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

TAKE COVER NOW! Move to a storm shelter, safe room or an interior
room on the lowest floor of a sturdy building. Avoid windows. If you
are outdoors, in a mobile home, or in a vehicle, move to the closest
substantial shelter and protect yourself from flying debris.

Heavy rainfall may hide this tornado. Do not wait to see or hear the
tornado. TAKE COVER NOW!
...BULLETIN - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
Severe Thunderstorm Warning
National Weather Service Norman OK
314 PM CDT Tue Apr 28 2026

The National Weather Service in Norman has issued a

* Severe Thunderstorm Warning for...
  Eastern Johnston County in southeastern Oklahoma...
  Northeastern Bryan County in southeastern Oklahoma...
  Coal County in southeastern Oklahoma...
  Southeastern Pontotoc County in east central Oklahoma...
  Atoka County in southeastern Oklahoma...

* Until 445 PM CDT.

* At 314 PM CDT, a severe thunderstorm was located near Bromide,
  moving east at 40 mph.

  HAZARD...Golf ball size hail and 70 mph wind gusts.

  SOURCE...Radar indicated.

  IMPACT...People and animals outdoors will be injured. Expect hail 
           damage to roofs, siding, windows, and vehicles. Expect 
           considerable tree damage. Wind damage is also likely to 
           mobile homes, roofs, and outbuildings.

* Locations impacted include...
  Atoka, Tishomingo, Coalgate, Caddo, Ravia, Stonewall, Wapanucka,
  Stringtown, Lehigh, Tupelo, Milburn, Tushka, Caney, Kenefic,
  Bromide, Centrahoma, Clarita, Olney, Fillmore, and Reagan.

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

For your protection move to an interior room on the lowest floor of a
building.

A Tornado Watch remains in effect for the warned area.

...URGENT - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
   Tornado Watch Number 171
   NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
   105 PM CDT Tue Apr 28 2026

   The NWS Storm Prediction Center has issued a

   * Tornado Watch for portions of 
     Southern Oklahoma
     North Texas

   * Effective this Tuesday afternoon and evening from 105 PM until
     900 PM CDT.

   * Primary threats include...
     A couple tornadoes possible
     Widespread large hail and scattered very large hail events to 4
       inches in diameter expected
     Scattered damaging winds likely with isolated significant gusts
       to 80 mph possible

   SUMMARY...Rapid development of intense storms/supercells is expected
   through the afternoon, especially in vicinity of a surface triple
   point and modifying outflow boundary. Given the extreme instability
   and strong mid/high-level winds, these supercells will be capable of
   very large hail, potentially in excess of baseball size. There will
   also be some tornado potential, especially given the influence of
   the aforementioned boundary, and some early evening increase in
   low-level shear. Eventually, damaging wind potential may also
   increase, including the possibility of destructive wind-driven hail
   as storms progress east-southeastward.

   The tornado watch area is approximately along and 80 statute miles
   north and south of a line from 70 miles southwest of Wichita Falls
   TX to 50 miles east southeast of Durant OK.....URGENT - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
   Tornado Watch Number 170
   NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
   1045 AM CDT Tue Apr 28 2026

   The NWS Storm Prediction Center has issued a

   * Tornado Watch for portions of 
     Arkansas
     Northern Louisiana
     Southeast Oklahoma
     Northeast Texas

   * Effective this Tuesday morning and evening from 1045 AM until
     700 PM CDT.

   * Primary threats include...
     A few tornadoes and a couple intense tornadoes possible
     Scattered damaging winds and isolated significant gusts to 75
       mph likely
     Scattered large hail likely with isolated very large hail events
       to 3 inches in diameter possible

   SUMMARY...The air mass across the region should quickly destabilize
   as cloud-clearing occurs in the presence of a moist environment.
   Large hail will be the most common concern initially, but damaging
   wind and tornado potential are expected to steadily increase through
   the afternoon regionally.

   The tornado watch area is approximately along and 90 statute miles
   north and south of a line from 35 miles north of Paris TX to 45
   miles east of Pine Bluff AR. For a complete depiction of the watch
   see the associated watch outline update (WOUS64 KWNS WOU0).

   PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

   REMEMBER...A Tornado Watch means conditions are favorable for
   tornadoes and severe thunderstorms in and close to the watch
   area. Persons in these areas should be on the lookout for
   threatening weather conditions and listen for later statements
   and possible warnings.
...URGENT - IMMEDIATE BROADCAST REQUESTED
   Severe Thunderstorm Watch Number 169
   NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
   1015 AM CDT Tue Apr 28 2026

   The NWS Storm Prediction Center has issued a

   * Severe Thunderstorm Watch for portions of 
     Northern Arkansas
     Southern Missouri
     Eastern Oklahoma

   * Effective this Tuesday morning and evening from 1015 AM until
     600 PM CDT.

   * Primary threats include...
     Scattered large hail likely with isolated very large hail events
       to 3 inches in diameter possible
     Scattered damaging wind gusts to 70 mph possible
     A tornado or two possible

   SUMMARY...Initially elevated storms will continue to expand/increase
   east-northeastward into this afternoon. Large hail will be the main
   risk initially today, but surfaced-based storms, including damaging
   wind potential, may increase later this afternoon, especially across
   the Ozarks.

   The severe thunderstorm watch area is approximately along and 70
   statute miles north and south of a line from 25 miles west northwest
   of Muskogee OK to 25 miles east northeast of West Plains MO.

