
BULLETIN - EAS ACTIVATION REQUESTED
Flash Flood Warning
National Weather Service Little Rock AR
740 PM CDT Sat May 23 2026

The National Weather Service in Little Rock has issued a

* Flash Flood Warning for...
  Boone County in north central Arkansas...
  Northwestern Newton County in north central Arkansas...

* Until 1015 PM CDT.

* At 740 PM CDT, Doppler radar indicated thunderstorms producing 
  heavy rain across the warned area. Between 2 and 3 inches of rain 
  have fallen. Additional rainfall amounts of 1 to 2 inches are 
  possible in the warned area. Flash flooding is ongoing or expected 
  to begin shortly.

  HAZARD...Flash flooding caused by thunderstorms.

  SOURCE...Radar.

  IMPACT...Flash flooding of small creeks and streams, urban
           areas, highways, streets and underpasses as well as
           other poor drainage and low-lying areas.

* Some locations that will experience flash flooding include...
  Harrison...                        Bergman...
  Omaha...                           Capps...
  Myrtle...                          Self...
  Red Bank...                        Roberson Hollow...
  Alpena...                          Crumpler Subdivision...
  Batavia...                         Bear Creek Springs...
  New Hope in Boone County...        Ridgeway...
  Burlington...                      Hopewell in Boone County...
  Gaither...                         Compton...

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

Turn around, don't drown when encountering flooded roads. Most flood 
deaths occur in vehicles.

Be especially cautious at night when it is harder to recognize the 
dangers of flooding...BULLETIN - EAS ACTIVATION REQUESTED
Flash Flood Warning
National Weather Service Tulsa OK
814 PM CDT Sat May 23 2026

The National Weather Service in Tulsa has issued a

* Flash Flood Warning for...
  North Central Crawford County in northwestern Arkansas...
  Southeastern Washington County in northwestern Arkansas...

* Until 1115 PM CDT.

* At 814 PM CDT, Doppler radar indicated thunderstorms producing 
  heavy rain across the warned area. Radar estimates between 1.5 and 
  2.5 inches of rain have fallen. Additional rainfall amounts of 1 
  to 2 inches are possible in the warned area. Flash flooding is 
  ongoing or expected to begin shortly.

  HAZARD...Flash flooding caused by thunderstorms.

  SOURCE...Radar.

  IMPACT...Flash flooding of small creeks and streams, urban
           areas, highways, streets and underpasses as well as
           other poor drainage and low-lying areas.

* Some locations that will experience flash flooding include...
  Winslow...                         Brentwood...
  Blackburn...                       Devils Den State Park...
  Mount Gayler...                    Wyola...
  Arnett...                          Durham...

PRECAUTIONARY/PREPAREDNESS ACTIONS...

Turn around, don't drown when encountering flooded roads. Most flood 
deaths occur in vehicles.

In hilly terrain there are hundreds of low water crossings which are 
potentially dangerous in heavy rain. Do not attempt to cross flooded 
roads. Find an alternate route.

Flooding is occurring or is imminent. It is important to know where 
you are relative to streams, rivers, or creeks which can become 
killers in heavy rains. Campers and hikers should avoid streams or 
creeks.

Please report observed flooding to local emergency services or law 
enforcement and request they pass this information to the National 
Weather Service when you can do so safely.


Be aware of your surroundings and do not drive on flooded roads.

