 Day 1 Convective Outlook  
   NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
   1250 AM CDT Tue Jun 16 2026

   Valid 161200Z - 171200Z

   ...THERE IS A MARGINAL RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS TODAY THROUGH
   TONIGHT ACROSS PARTS OF THE NORTHERN GREAT PLAINS INTO MIDWEST AND
   NEAR THE GULF COAST...

   ...SUMMARY...
   Areas of mainly widely scattered strong thunderstorm development,
   accompanied by at least some risk for severe weather, are possible
   across parts of the northern Great Plains into Midwest and near the
   Gulf Coast vicinity today through tonight.

   ...Discussion...
   Higher latitude blocking appears likely to maintain a broad area of
   cyclonic mid-level flow with anomalously low heights to the lee of
   the northern Rockies through the northern and middle Atlantic
   Seaboard.  Within this regime, models suggest that an initially
   vigorous short wave trough (now digging into the Upper Midwest) may
   maintain strength into and across the Lake Michigan vicinity, before
   undergoing considerable deformation while turning eastward and
   northeastward, to the southeast of a mid-level becoming centered
   near the northern Manitoba/northwestern Ontario border.  After
   rounding the crest of mid-level ridging centered over the northern
   mid-latitude eastern Pacific, it appears that another significant
   short wave perturbation will dig through the broadly confluent
   regime to the southwest of the low, across the northern Rockies
   through northern Great Plains by late tonight.

   In lower latitudes, mid/upper ridging emanating from the subtropical
   Atlantic may maintain considerable influence across the Florida
   peninsula today, while weak troughing, perhaps with a developing
   mid-level cyclonic circulation, slowly pivots across the lower Texas
   and Mexican Gulf coast.

   In lower levels, seasonably high boundary-layer moisture content has
   generally been maintained across much of the Gulf coastal plain.  It
   appears that strengthening southerly low-level flow may support more
   substantive moisture return to the southeast of deepening surface
   troughing across the northern into central Great Plains by late
   tonight.

   ...Midwest/Great Lakes...
   Weak convection accompanying forcing for ascent associated with the
   lead short wave trough appears likely to persist and perhaps
   increase across the Upper Midwest through Great Lakes and Ohio
   Valley during the day.  Coinciding low-level cooling is likely to at
   least slow, if not inhibit, boundary layer warming in the wake of
   this activity.  However, various model output suggests that
   associated low-level moistening, coupled with a period of insolation
   beneath a developing mid-level dry slot, may be sufficient to
   support a corridor of modest destabilization as the mid-level cold
   pool (including 500 mb temperatures around -18 to -20C) overspreads
   the southern Lake Michigan vicinity late this afternoon.  This
   environment might become sufficient for a developing broken band of
   vigorous convection, perhaps including supercells, posing a risk for
   severe hail/wind and possibly a tornado or two, before weakening
   later this evening.

   ...Central Great Plains...
   Forcing for ascent to support convective development along the
   stalling cold front, trailing the short wave trough progressing into
   the Great Lakes/Ohio Valley, remains unclear.  However, there
   appears a general consensus within model output that boundary-layer
   moistening may support CAPE on the order of 1000-2000 J/kg across
   parts of southern Kansas into southwestern Missouri, where mid-level
   inhibition may remain weak enough through late afternoon/early
   evening to allow for isolated/widely scattered thunderstorm
   initiation.  If this occurs, guidance indicates sufficient shear for
   supercell development, before increasing inhibition suppresses
   convection later this evening.

   ...Gulf Coast...
   Models indicate modest strengthening of westerly flow (including
   20-40 kt in the 850-500 mb layer) in a belt across the north central
   through northeastern Gulf coast vicinity today.  Coinciding with
   destabilization driven by daytime heating of the seasonably moist
   boundary layer, this may support modestly organizing convection,
   perhaps transient supercell structures, posing a risk for damaging
   wind gusts and perhaps an isolated tornado or two.

   ...Northern Great Plains into Midwest...
   Models suggest that a corridor of fairly deep boundary-layer mixing
   will precede the vigorous short wave trough digging across and
   east-southeast of the Canadian/northern U.S. Rockies.  It appears
   that associated mid-level forcing for ascent will contribute to
   sufficient destabilization to support scattered thunderstorm
   development with potential to produce some hail and scattered strong
   to severe surface gusts late this afternoon into evening.

   Within strengthening downstream warm advection, forcing for ascent
   may begin to interact with better elevated moisture return to
   support increasing strong thunderstorm development with potential to
   producing severe hail by late tonight, across parts of eastern Iowa
   and adjacent portions of the Midwest.

   ..Kerr/Weinman.. 06/16/2026... Day 2 Convective Outlook  
   NWS Storm Prediction Center Norman OK
   1259 AM CDT Tue Jun 16 2026

   Valid 171200Z - 181200Z

   ...THERE IS A MODERATE RISK OF SEVERE THUNDERSTORMS ACROSS PORTIONS
   OF CENTRAL ILLINOIS INTO NORTHWEST INDIANA...

   ...SUMMARY...
   An outbreak of severe thunderstorms is expected across portions of
   Illinois and Indiana on Wednesday. Intense tornadoes, swaths of
   damaging gusts to 80 mph and hail to 2.5 inch diameter are expected.

   ...Midwest...

   A volatile environment for severe thunderstorms is expected to
   develop across portions of the Midwest from IA/MO into IL/IN/OH on
   Wednesday, with significant all-hazards severe expected.

   A mid/upper level shortwave trough initially over the northern
   Plains early Wednesday will pivot southeast across the Upper Midwest
   through 00z, and much of the Great Lakes by 12z Thursday. As this
   occurs, particularly intense mid and upper level flow, especially by
   June standards, if forecast to increase over the region. A 60-80 kt
   westerly 500 mb jet stream will overspread much of the Midwest
   through the evening, before increasing further during the nighttime
   hours. Furthermore, an impressive southwesterly 850 mb low-level jet
   around 50-60 kt will be oriented from KS into IA at 12z. This
   feature will spread east/northeast across IL/IN/OH through evening.
   Interestingly, the core of the low-level jet may be somewhat
   displaced to the east of the core warm sector expected to develop
   across the Mid-MS Valley vicinity, perhaps tied to an early-day
   shortwave impulse ejecting across IA/IL during the morning.
   Nevertheless, 40-55 kt 850 mb winds will persist even across the
   warm sector even as the core of the low-level jet overspreads the
   Ohio Valley toward Lower MI during the afternoon. 

   At the surface, an elongated area of low pressure will extend from
   ND to the Mid-MO valley Wednesday morning. A warm front will extend
   from northwest IA southeastward across central IL, while a cold
   front extend from eastern NE into western KS. As this system
   progresses east through the day, the warm front will lift northward
   into northern IL/IN/OH and upper 60s/near 70 dewpoints are expected.
   Aided by steep midlevel lapse rates/cooling aloft, MLCAPE will
   approach 2500-3500 J/kg. The latitude of the warm front continues to
   be a point of uncertainty. Most forecast guidance depicts morning
   convection near and north of the warm front within a strong warm
   advection regime moving eastward across IA/northern IL/IN. It is
   uncertain if this will suppress the northward advancement of the
   warm front. The ultimate position of the warm front will have large
   impacts on where particularly concerning strong to intense tornado
   potential may eventually develop as storm motion would likely be
   along the boundary, rather than across the boundary, allowing for
   potentially fast-moving/long-track supercells interacting with the
   warm front and remaining within the favorable warm sector.

   As the surface cold front develops east, additional convection will
   develop along the boundary by late afternoon/early evening from far
   southeast IA into northern MO and eastern KS. Initial supercells
   along this boundary will pose an all hazards risk -- including very
   large hail, strong tornadoes and damaging gusts. With time, this
   convection may develop into a line propagating east/southeast. If a
   linear MCS develops, swaths of damaging wind gusts will be possible.


   In general, given the strength of background flow fields, damaging
   wind potential could be significant regardless of storm mode.
   Furthermore, even storms developing north of the warm front could
   still produce severe gusts given large MUCAPE, fast storm motion and
   intense flow just above the surface. Favorable low-level shear will
   also support continued tornado potential even within a linear storm
   mode via embedded supercell structures and mesovortex generation.
   Large to very large hail potential is most likely early in storm
   development and where supercells are more likely to remain discrete
   (northern MO/far southeast IA/north-central IL).

   ...Gulf Coast...

   Isolated strong gusts are possible in association with a tropical
   disturbance moving eastward along the Gulf Coast. See the tropical
   weather outlook from the National Hurricane Center for more
   information.

   ..Leitman.. 06/16/2026

