This is the National Climate Change Warning Center: USA: Severe weather possible from MT to IA, from MT to MI, and from VA to LA and from GA to Florida. Fire risk from WA to OR. Flood watch in Utah. Canada: Quebec flooding possible. Saskatchewan heat wave warnings. Manitoba heat wave warnings. Quebec flood warnings. Newfoundland and Labrador Wind warnings. Nova Scotia wind warnings. Ontario severe storms possible. International: Ecuador heat wave warnings. Poland severe storms and flooding possible. Algeria heat wave warnings. India flooding and severe storms. Italy heat wave warnings. China flooding, drought, and heat wave warnings. Kazakhstan: fire and heat wave warnings. Climate shifts are adding moisture and jet-stream swings, helping storms like this grow larger and more intense. From Climate Scientist Adams! Special Statement: Tropical Weather Outlook
NWS National Hurricane Center Miami FL
800 AM EDT Sun Jul 19 2026

For the North Atlantic...Caribbean Sea and the Gulf of America:

Northern Gulf of America and near Florida (AL91):
An area of low pressure located over the northeastern Gulf of 
America continues to become better defined and the associated shower 
and thunderstorm activity is gradually increasing.  Continued 
gradual development is expected, and a tropical depression is likely 
to form later today or on Monday as the system moves slowly 
northward or northwestward.  Interests along the northern Gulf coast 
from Florida, Alabama, Mississippi, and Louisiana should monitor 
the progress of this system, as tropical storm watches or warnings 
could be required for portions of the area later today.  In 
addition, this system is expected to bring heavy rains to portions 
of the northern Gulf coast during the next several days.  An Air 
Force Reserve reconnaissance aircraft is scheduled to investigate 
the low pressure area later today.
* Formation chance through 48 hours...high...80 percent.
* Formation chance through 7 days...high...80 percent.

$$
Forecaster Cangialosi
